docs/API.rst, before:

API
===

This library provides IRC client functionality

Client
----------

.. js:function:: irc.Client(server, nick [, options])

    This object is the base of everything, it represents a single nick connected to
    a single IRC server.

    The first two arguments are the server to connect to, and the nickname to
    attempt to use. The third optional argument is an options object with default
    values::

        {
            userName: 'nodebot',
            realName: 'nodeJS IRC client',
            port: 6667,
            debug: false,
            showErrors: false,
            autoRejoin: true,
            autoConnect: true,
            channels: [],
            secure: false,
            selfSigned: false,
            certExpired: false,
            floodProtection: false,
            floodProtectionDelay: 1000,
            stripColors: false
        }

    `secure` (SSL connection) can be a true value or an object (the kind of object
    returned from `crypto.createCredentials()`) specifying cert etc for validation.
    If you set `selfSigned` to true SSL accepts certificates from a non trusted CA.
    If you set `certExpired` to true, the bot connects even if the ssl cert has expired.

    `floodProtection` queues all your messages and slowly unpacks it to make sure
    that we won't get kicked out because for Excess Flood. You can also use
    `Client.activateFloodProtection()` to activate flood protection after
    instantiating the client.

    `floodProtectionDelay` sets the amount of time that the client will wait
    between sending subsequent messages when `floodProtection` is enabled.

    `stripColors` removes mirc colors (0x03 followed by one or two ascii
    numbers for foreground,background) and ircII "effect" codes (0x02
    bold, 0x1f underline, 0x16 reverse, 0x0f reset) from the entire
    message before parsing it and passing it along.

    Setting `autoConnect` to false prevents the Client from connecting on
    instantiation.  You will need to call `connect()` on the client instance::

        var client = new irc.Client({ autoConnect: false, ... });
        client.connect();


.. js:function:: Client.send(command, arg1, arg2, ...)

    Sends a raw message to the server; generally speaking, it's best not to use
    this method unless you know what you're doing. Instead, use one of the
    methods below.

.. js:function:: Client.join(channel, callback)

    Joins the specified channel.

    :param string channel: Channel to join
    :param function callback: Callback to automatically subscribed to the
        `join#channel` event, but removed after the first invocation.  `channel`
        supports multiple JOIN arguments as a space separated string (similar to
        the IRC protocol).

.. js:function:: Client.part(channel, callback)

    Parts the specified channel.

    :param string channel: Channel to part
    :param function callback: Callback to automatically subscribed to the
        `part#channel` event, but removed after the first invocation.

.. js:function:: Client.say(target, message)

    Sends a message to the specified target.

    :param string target: is either a nickname, or a channel.
    :param string message: the message to send to the target.

.. js:function:: Client.ctcp(target, type, text)

    Sends a CTCP message to the specified target.
    
    :param string target: is either a nickname, or a channel.
    :param string type: the type of the CTCP message, either "privmsg" for
        a PRIVMSG or something else for a NOTICE.
    :param string text: the CTCP message to send.

.. js:function:: Client.action(target, message)

    Sends an action to the specified target.

.. js:function:: Client.notice(target, message)

    Sends a notice to the specified target.

    :param string target: is either a nickname, or a channel.
    :param string message: the message to send as a notice to the target.

.. js:function:: Client.whois(nick, callback)

    Request a whois for the specified `nick`.

    :param string nick: is a nickname
    :param function callback: Callback to fire when the server has finished
        generating the whois information and is passed exactly the same
        information as a `whois` event described above.

.. js:function:: Client.list([arg1, arg2, ...])

   Request a channel listing from the server. The arguments for this method are
   fairly server specific, this method just passes them through exactly as
   specified.

   Responses from the server are available via the `channellist_start`,
   `channellist_item`, and `channellist` events.

.. js:function:: Client.connect(retryCount, callback)

   Connects to the server. Used when `autoConnect` in the options is set to
   false. If `retryCount` is a function it will be treated as the `callback`
   (i.e. both arguments to this function are optional).

    :param integer retryCount: Optional number of times to attempt reconnection
    :param function callback: Optional callback

.. js:function:: Client.disconnect(message, callback)

    Disconnects from the IRC server. If `message` if a function it will be
    treated as the `callback` (i.e. both arguments to this function are
    optional).

    :param string message: Optional message to send when disconnecting.
    :param function callback: Optional callback

.. js:function:: Client.activateFloodProtection(interval)

    Activates flood protection "after the fact". You can also use
    `floodProtection` while instantiating the Client to enable flood
    protection, and `floodProtectionDelay` to set the default message
    interval.

    :param integer interval: Optional configuration for amount of time
        to wait between messages. Takes value from client configuration
        if unspecified.

Events
------

`irc.Client` instances are EventEmitters with the following events:


.. js:data:: 'registered'

    `function (message) { }`

    Emitted when the server sends the initial 001 line, indicating you've connected
    to the server. See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'motd'

    `function (motd) { }`

    Emitted when the server sends the message of the day to clients.

.. js:data:: 'names'

    `function (channel, nicks) { }`

    Emitted when the server sends a list of nicks for a channel (which happens
    immediately after joining and on request. The nicks object passed to the
    callback is keyed by nick names, and has values '', '+', or '@' depending on the
    level of that nick in the channel.

.. js:data:: 'topic'

    `function (channel, topic, nick, message) { }`

    Emitted when the server sends the channel topic on joining a channel, or when a
    user changes the topic on a channel. See the `raw` event for details on the
    `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'join'

    `function (channel, nick, message) { }`

    Emitted when a user joins a channel (including when the client itself joins a
    channel). See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'join#channel'

    `function (nick, message) { }`

    As per 'join' event but only emits for the subscribed channel.
    See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'part'

    `function (channel, nick, reason, message) { }`

    Emitted when a user parts a channel (including when the client itself parts a
    channel). See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'part#channel'

    `function (nick, reason, message) { }`

    As per 'part' event but only emits for the subscribed channel.
    See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'quit'

    `function (nick, reason, channels, message) { }`

    Emitted when a user disconnects from the IRC, leaving the specified array of
    channels. See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'kick'

    `function (channel, nick, by, reason, message) { }`

    Emitted when a user is kicked from a channel. See the `raw` event for details
    on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'kick#channel'

    `function (nick, by, reason, message) { }`

    As per 'kick' event but only emits for the subscribed channel.
    See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'kill'

    `function (nick, reason, channels, message) { }`

    Emitted when a user is killed from the IRC server.
    `channels` is an array of channels the killed user was in which
    are known to the client.
    See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'message'

    `function (nick, to, text, message) { }`

    Emitted when a message is sent. `to` can be either a nick (which is most likely
    this clients nick and means a private message), or a channel (which means a
    message to that channel). See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'message#'

    `function (nick, to, text, message) { }`

    Emitted when a message is sent to any channel (i.e. exactly the same as the
    `message` event but excluding private messages.
    See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'message#channel'

    `function (nick, text, message) { }`

    As per 'message' event but only emits for the subscribed channel.
    See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'notice'

    `function (nick, to, text, message) { }`

    Emitted when a notice is sent. `to` can be either a nick (which is most likely
    this clients nick and means a private message), or a channel (which means a
    message to that channel). `nick` is either the senders nick or `null` which
    means that the notice comes from the server. See the `raw` event for details
    on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'pm'

    `function (nick, text, message) { }`

    As per 'message' event but only emits when the message is direct to the client.
    See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'ctcp'

   `function (from, to, text, type) { }`
   
   Emitted when a CTCP notice or privmsg was received (`type` is either `'notice'`
   or `'privmsg'`).

.. js:data:: 'ctcp-notice'

   `function (from, to, text) { }`
   
   Emitted when a CTCP notice was received.

.. js:data:: 'ctcp-privmsg'

   `function (from, to, text) { }`
   
   Emitted when a CTCP privmsg was received.

.. js:data:: 'ctcp-version'

   `function (from, to) { }`
   
   Emitted when a CTCP VERSION request was received.

.. js:data:: 'nick'

    `function (oldnick, newnick, channels, message) { }`

    Emitted when a user changes nick along with the channels the user is in.
    See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'invite'

    `function (channel, from, message) { }`

    Emitted when the client recieves an `/invite`. See the `raw` event for details
    on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: '+mode'

	`function (channel, by, mode, argument, message) { }`

    Emitted when a mode is added to a user or channel. `channel` is the channel
    which the mode is being set on/in. `by` is the user setting the mode. `mode`
    is the single character mode indentifier. If the mode is being set on a user,
    `argument` is the nick of the user.  If the mode is being set on a channel,
    `argument` is the argument to the mode. If a channel mode doesn't have any
    arguments, `argument` will be 'undefined'. See the `raw` event for details
    on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: '-mode'

	`function (channel, by, mode, argument, message) { }`

    Emitted when a mode is removed from a user or channel. `channel` is the channel
    which the mode is being set on/in. `by` is the user setting the mode. `mode`
    is the single character mode indentifier. If the mode is being set on a user,
    `argument` is the nick of the user.  If the mode is being set on a channel,
    `argument` is the argument to the mode. If a channel mode doesn't have any
    arguments, `argument` will be 'undefined'. See the `raw` event for details
    on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'whois'

    `function (info) { }`

    Emitted whenever the server finishes outputting a WHOIS response. The
    information should look something like::

        {
            nick: "Ned",
            user: "martyn",
            host: "10.0.0.18",
            realname: "Unknown",
            channels: ["@#purpledishwashers", "#blah", "#mmmmbacon"],
            server: "*.dollyfish.net.nz",
            serverinfo: "The Dollyfish Underworld",
            operator: "is an IRC Operator"
        }

.. js:data:: 'channellist_start'

    `function () {}`

    Emitted whenever the server starts a new channel listing

.. js:data:: 'channellist_item'

   `function (channel_info) {}`

   Emitted for each channel the server returns. The channel_info object
   contains keys 'name', 'users' (number of users on the channel), and 'topic'.

.. js:data:: 'channellist'

   `function (channel_list) {}`

   Emitted when the server has finished returning a channel list. The
   channel_list array is simply a list of the objects that were returned in the
   intervening `channellist_item` events.

   This data is also available via the Client.channellist property after this
   event has fired.

.. js:data:: 'raw'

    `function (message) { }`

    Emitted when ever the client receives a "message" from the server. A message is
    basically a single line of data from the server, but the parameter to the
    callback has already been parsed and contains::

        message = {
            prefix: "The prefix for the message (optional)",
            nick: "The nickname portion of the prefix (optional)",
            user: "The username portion of the prefix (optional)",
            host: "The hostname portion of the prefix (optional)",
            server: "The servername (if the prefix was a servername)",
            rawCommand: "The command exactly as sent from the server",
            command: "Human readable version of the command",
            commandType: "normal, error, or reply",
            args: ['arguments', 'to', 'the', 'command'],
        }

    You can read more about the IRC protocol by reading `RFC 1459
    <http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1459.txt>`_

.. js:data:: 'error'

    `function (message) { }`

    Emitted when ever the server responds with an error-type message. The message
    parameter is exactly as in the 'raw' event.

Colors
------

.. js:function:: irc.colors.wrap(color, text [, reset_color])

    Takes a color by name, text, and optionally what color to return.

    :param string color: the name of the color as a string
    :param string text: the text you want colorized
    :param string reset_color: the nam of the color you want set after the text (defaults to 'reset')

.. js:data:: irc.colors.codes

    This contains the set of colors available and a function to wrap text in a
    color.

    The following color choices are available:

    {
        white: '\u000300',
        black: '\u000301',
        dark_blue: '\u000302',
        dark_green: '\u000303',
        light_red: '\u000304',
        dark_red: '\u000305',
        magenta: '\u000306',
        orange: '\u000307',
        yellow: '\u000308',
        light_green: '\u000309',
        cyan: '\u000310',
        light_cyan: '\u000311',
        light_blue: '\u000312',
        light_magenta: '\u000313',
        gray: '\u000314',
        light_gray: '\u000315',
        reset: '\u000f',
    }

Internal
------

.. js:data:: Client.conn

    Socket to the server. Rarely, if ever needed. Use `Client.send` instead.

.. js:data:: Client.chans

    Channels joined. Updated *after* the server recognizes the join.

.. js:function:: client._whoisData

    Buffer of whois data as whois is sent over multiple lines.

.. js:function:: client._addWhoisData

    Self-explanatory.

.. js:function:: client._clearWhoisData

    Self-explanatory.

Commit message:

Add option to split messages into multiple PRIVMSGs
Many IRC servers only allow a PRIVMESSAGE length of some number of
characters. This lets the user specify what size they want messages
to be split into.

docs/API.rst, after:

API
===

This library provides IRC client functionality

Client
----------

.. js:function:: irc.Client(server, nick [, options])

    This object is the base of everything, it represents a single nick connected to
    a single IRC server.

    The first two arguments are the server to connect to, and the nickname to
    attempt to use. The third optional argument is an options object with default
    values::

        {
            userName: 'nodebot',
            realName: 'nodeJS IRC client',
            port: 6667,
            debug: false,
            showErrors: false,
            autoRejoin: true,
            autoConnect: true,
            channels: [],
            secure: false,
            selfSigned: false,
            certExpired: false,
            floodProtection: false,
            floodProtectionDelay: 1000,
            messageSplit: 400,
            stripColors: false
        }

    `secure` (SSL connection) can be a true value or an object (the kind of object
    returned from `crypto.createCredentials()`) specifying cert etc for validation.
    If you set `selfSigned` to true SSL accepts certificates from a non trusted CA.
    If you set `certExpired` to true, the bot connects even if the ssl cert has expired.

    `floodProtection` queues all your messages and slowly unpacks it to make sure
    that we won't get kicked out because for Excess Flood. You can also use
    `Client.activateFloodProtection()` to activate flood protection after
    instantiating the client.

    `floodProtectionDelay` sets the amount of time that the client will wait
    between sending subsequent messages when `floodProtection` is enabled.

    `messageSplit` will split up large messages sent with the `say` method
    into multiple messages of length less than `messageSplit` characters.

    `stripColors` removes mirc colors (0x03 followed by one or two ascii
    numbers for foreground,background) and ircII "effect" codes (0x02
    bold, 0x1f underline, 0x16 reverse, 0x0f reset) from the entire
    message before parsing it and passing it along.

    Setting `autoConnect` to false prevents the Client from connecting on
    instantiation.  You will need to call `connect()` on the client instance::

        var client = new irc.Client({ autoConnect: false, ... });
        client.connect();


.. js:function:: Client.send(command, arg1, arg2, ...)

    Sends a raw message to the server; generally speaking, it's best not to use
    this method unless you know what you're doing. Instead, use one of the
    methods below.

.. js:function:: Client.join(channel, callback)

    Joins the specified channel.

    :param string channel: Channel to join
    :param function callback: Callback to automatically subscribed to the
        `join#channel` event, but removed after the first invocation.  `channel`
        supports multiple JOIN arguments as a space separated string (similar to
        the IRC protocol).

.. js:function:: Client.part(channel, callback)

    Parts the specified channel.

    :param string channel: Channel to part
    :param function callback: Callback to automatically subscribed to the
        `part#channel` event, but removed after the first invocation.

.. js:function:: Client.say(target, message)

    Sends a message to the specified target.

    :param string target: is either a nickname, or a channel.
    :param string message: the message to send to the target.

.. js:function:: Client.ctcp(target, type, text)

    Sends a CTCP message to the specified target.
    
    :param string target: is either a nickname, or a channel.
    :param string type: the type of the CTCP message, either "privmsg" for
        a PRIVMSG or something else for a NOTICE.
    :param string text: the CTCP message to send.

.. js:function:: Client.action(target, message)

    Sends an action to the specified target.

.. js:function:: Client.notice(target, message)

    Sends a notice to the specified target.

    :param string target: is either a nickname, or a channel.
    :param string message: the message to send as a notice to the target.

.. js:function:: Client.whois(nick, callback)

    Request a whois for the specified `nick`.

    :param string nick: is a nickname
    :param function callback: Callback to fire when the server has finished
        generating the whois information and is passed exactly the same
        information as a `whois` event described above.

.. js:function:: Client.list([arg1, arg2, ...])

   Request a channel listing from the server. The arguments for this method are
   fairly server specific, this method just passes them through exactly as
   specified.

   Responses from the server are available via the `channellist_start`,
   `channellist_item`, and `channellist` events.

.. js:function:: Client.connect(retryCount, callback)

   Connects to the server. Used when `autoConnect` in the options is set to
   false. If `retryCount` is a function it will be treated as the `callback`
   (i.e. both arguments to this function are optional).

    :param integer retryCount: Optional number of times to attempt reconnection
    :param function callback: Optional callback

.. js:function:: Client.disconnect(message, callback)

    Disconnects from the IRC server. If `message` if a function it will be
    treated as the `callback` (i.e. both arguments to this function are
    optional).

    :param string message: Optional message to send when disconnecting.
    :param function callback: Optional callback

.. js:function:: Client.activateFloodProtection(interval)

    Activates flood protection "after the fact". You can also use
    `floodProtection` while instantiating the Client to enable flood
    protection, and `floodProtectionDelay` to set the default message
    interval.

    :param integer interval: Optional configuration for amount of time
        to wait between messages. Takes value from client configuration
        if unspecified.

Events
------

`irc.Client` instances are EventEmitters with the following events:


.. js:data:: 'registered'

    `function (message) { }`

    Emitted when the server sends the initial 001 line, indicating you've connected
    to the server. See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'motd'

    `function (motd) { }`

    Emitted when the server sends the message of the day to clients.

.. js:data:: 'names'

    `function (channel, nicks) { }`

    Emitted when the server sends a list of nicks for a channel (which happens
    immediately after joining and on request. The nicks object passed to the
    callback is keyed by nick names, and has values '', '+', or '@' depending on the
    level of that nick in the channel.

.. js:data:: 'topic'

    `function (channel, topic, nick, message) { }`

    Emitted when the server sends the channel topic on joining a channel, or when a
    user changes the topic on a channel. See the `raw` event for details on the
    `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'join'

    `function (channel, nick, message) { }`

    Emitted when a user joins a channel (including when the client itself joins a
    channel). See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'join#channel'

    `function (nick, message) { }`

    As per 'join' event but only emits for the subscribed channel.
    See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'part'

    `function (channel, nick, reason, message) { }`

    Emitted when a user parts a channel (including when the client itself parts a
    channel). See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'part#channel'

    `function (nick, reason, message) { }`

    As per 'part' event but only emits for the subscribed channel.
    See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'quit'

    `function (nick, reason, channels, message) { }`

    Emitted when a user disconnects from the IRC, leaving the specified array of
    channels. See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'kick'

    `function (channel, nick, by, reason, message) { }`

    Emitted when a user is kicked from a channel. See the `raw` event for details
    on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'kick#channel'

    `function (nick, by, reason, message) { }`

    As per 'kick' event but only emits for the subscribed channel.
    See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'kill'

    `function (nick, reason, channels, message) { }`

    Emitted when a user is killed from the IRC server.
    `channels` is an array of channels the killed user was in which
    are known to the client.
    See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'message'

    `function (nick, to, text, message) { }`

    Emitted when a message is sent. `to` can be either a nick (which is most likely
    this clients nick and means a private message), or a channel (which means a
    message to that channel). See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'message#'

    `function (nick, to, text, message) { }`

    Emitted when a message is sent to any channel (i.e. exactly the same as the
    `message` event but excluding private messages.
    See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'message#channel'

    `function (nick, text, message) { }`

    As per 'message' event but only emits for the subscribed channel.
    See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'notice'

    `function (nick, to, text, message) { }`

    Emitted when a notice is sent. `to` can be either a nick (which is most likely
    this clients nick and means a private message), or a channel (which means a
    message to that channel). `nick` is either the senders nick or `null` which
    means that the notice comes from the server. See the `raw` event for details
    on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'pm'

    `function (nick, text, message) { }`

    As per 'message' event but only emits when the message is direct to the client.
    See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'ctcp'

   `function (from, to, text, type) { }`
   
   Emitted when a CTCP notice or privmsg was received (`type` is either `'notice'`
   or `'privmsg'`).

.. js:data:: 'ctcp-notice'

   `function (from, to, text) { }`
   
   Emitted when a CTCP notice was received.

.. js:data:: 'ctcp-privmsg'

   `function (from, to, text) { }`
   
   Emitted when a CTCP privmsg was received.

.. js:data:: 'ctcp-version'

   `function (from, to) { }`
   
   Emitted when a CTCP VERSION request was received.

.. js:data:: 'nick'

    `function (oldnick, newnick, channels, message) { }`

    Emitted when a user changes nick along with the channels the user is in.
    See the `raw` event for details on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'invite'

    `function (channel, from, message) { }`

    Emitted when the client recieves an `/invite`. See the `raw` event for details
    on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: '+mode'

	`function (channel, by, mode, argument, message) { }`

    Emitted when a mode is added to a user or channel. `channel` is the channel
    which the mode is being set on/in. `by` is the user setting the mode. `mode`
    is the single character mode indentifier. If the mode is being set on a user,
    `argument` is the nick of the user.  If the mode is being set on a channel,
    `argument` is the argument to the mode. If a channel mode doesn't have any
    arguments, `argument` will be 'undefined'. See the `raw` event for details
    on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: '-mode'

	`function (channel, by, mode, argument, message) { }`

    Emitted when a mode is removed from a user or channel. `channel` is the channel
    which the mode is being set on/in. `by` is the user setting the mode. `mode`
    is the single character mode indentifier. If the mode is being set on a user,
    `argument` is the nick of the user.  If the mode is being set on a channel,
    `argument` is the argument to the mode. If a channel mode doesn't have any
    arguments, `argument` will be 'undefined'. See the `raw` event for details
    on the `message` object.

.. js:data:: 'whois'

    `function (info) { }`

    Emitted whenever the server finishes outputting a WHOIS response. The
    information should look something like::

        {
            nick: "Ned",
            user: "martyn",
            host: "10.0.0.18",
            realname: "Unknown",
            channels: ["@#purpledishwashers", "#blah", "#mmmmbacon"],
            server: "*.dollyfish.net.nz",
            serverinfo: "The Dollyfish Underworld",
            operator: "is an IRC Operator"
        }

.. js:data:: 'channellist_start'

    `function () {}`

    Emitted whenever the server starts a new channel listing

.. js:data:: 'channellist_item'

   `function (channel_info) {}`

   Emitted for each channel the server returns. The channel_info object
   contains keys 'name', 'users' (number of users on the channel), and 'topic'.

.. js:data:: 'channellist'

   `function (channel_list) {}`

   Emitted when the server has finished returning a channel list. The
   channel_list array is simply a list of the objects that were returned in the
   intervening `channellist_item` events.

   This data is also available via the Client.channellist property after this
   event has fired.

.. js:data:: 'raw'

    `function (message) { }`

    Emitted when ever the client receives a "message" from the server. A message is
    basically a single line of data from the server, but the parameter to the
    callback has already been parsed and contains::

        message = {
            prefix: "The prefix for the message (optional)",
            nick: "The nickname portion of the prefix (optional)",
            user: "The username portion of the prefix (optional)",
            host: "The hostname portion of the prefix (optional)",
            server: "The servername (if the prefix was a servername)",
            rawCommand: "The command exactly as sent from the server",
            command: "Human readable version of the command",
            commandType: "normal, error, or reply",
            args: ['arguments', 'to', 'the', 'command'],
        }

    You can read more about the IRC protocol by reading `RFC 1459
    <http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc1459.txt>`_

.. js:data:: 'error'

    `function (message) { }`

    Emitted when ever the server responds with an error-type message. The message
    parameter is exactly as in the 'raw' event.

Colors
------

.. js:function:: irc.colors.wrap(color, text [, reset_color])

    Takes a color by name, text, and optionally what color to return.

    :param string color: the name of the color as a string
    :param string text: the text you want colorized
    :param string reset_color: the nam of the color you want set after the text (defaults to 'reset')

.. js:data:: irc.colors.codes

    This contains the set of colors available and a function to wrap text in a
    color.

    The following color choices are available:

    {
        white: '\u000300',
        black: '\u000301',
        dark_blue: '\u000302',
        dark_green: '\u000303',
        light_red: '\u000304',
        dark_red: '\u000305',
        magenta: '\u000306',
        orange: '\u000307',
        yellow: '\u000308',
        light_green: '\u000309',
        cyan: '\u000310',
        light_cyan: '\u000311',
        light_blue: '\u000312',
        light_magenta: '\u000313',
        gray: '\u000314',
        light_gray: '\u000315',
        reset: '\u000f',
    }

Internal
------

.. js:data:: Client.conn

    Socket to the server. Rarely, if ever needed. Use `Client.send` instead.

.. js:data:: Client.chans

    Channels joined. Updated *after* the server recognizes the join.

.. js:function:: client._whoisData

    Buffer of whois data as whois is sent over multiple lines.

.. js:function:: client._addWhoisData

    Self-explanatory.

.. js:function:: client._clearWhoisData

    Self-explanatory.
